trade unions and groups representing the
families of Israeli hostages are holding
a general strike to press the government
to reach a deal to free those still held
by Hamas it's already been inflicting
some flights on benorian airports in Tel
Aviv and businesses schools and other
forms of Transport have also been hit
well the stoppage is a day after the
Israeli Army said it had recovered the
bodies of six hostages who were taken
during the attacks of the 7th of October
that led to mass demonstrations in
Jerusalem and Tel Aviv on Sunday with
the organizers calling on the Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to negotiate
a deal with Hamas to bring home the
estimated 100 remaining hostages
Sunday's protests were largely peaceful
but some crowds broke through police
lines blocking a major highway in Tel
Aviv while our correspondent John nson
is following the story after the biggest
protests in Israel since the start of
the war in Gaza with hundreds of
thousands of people demonstrating across
the country today A general strike so
thousands of businesses are going to be
closed some schools universities
government Ministries Banks uh some bus
uh networks uh so we're expecting a
major hit on the economy here today in
Israel and the outrage against Hamas is
a given but these protests are not about
that these protests are against the
government of prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu who is accused of pursuing his
own personal political Ambitions and his
survival uh in in sacrifice of a hostage
release and ceasefire deal in Gaza Mr
Netanyahu insists that the best way to
get the remaining hostages out of Gaza
is to keep applying military pressure on
Hamas however many many many people in
Israel don't feel that way including
some of the hostage families they have
accused Mr Netanyahu of having the blood
of their loved ones on his hands there
were chance of murderer at last night's
uh protest and it's not just the public
it is also within his own government so
we've had reports in the last week of a
shouting match between the Prime
Minister and his defense minister yev
Galant uh who says that in effect Mr
Netanyahu is blocking this deal with
Hamas that the world's diplomats have
been pursuing now for weeks and months
as I say Mr Netanyahu up to now has re
has rejected that pressure and he says
that it is Hamas who are the murderers
and that they will be pursued and
punished John donison there our
correspondent let's speak to the former
conservative MP aliser Bert also served
as minister of State for the Middle East
thank you very much for being with us um
when we look at events in Israel with
these protests today um what political
effect do you think that might
have the scale of the protest is
certainly
unprecedented there's been thousands of
people demonstrating regularly against
prime minister Netanyahu firstly for uh
internal political reasons and then sort
of post October the 7th lately in terms
of his handling of the of the crisis but
the scale of the protest the vment of it
and the sense that the prime minister's
strategy after October the 7th of
seeking total victory of the elimination
of Hamas and the recovery of the
hostages has proved to be a failure
because it was impossible he was advised
that you couldn't do both uh and that
advice has been borne out by experience
and the circumstances of the murders of
the six hostages that have been reported
have just increased the the the anguish
of uh many of the population of Israel
that's what we've seen whether it will
change breson netanyahu's policy is
difficult to estimate because he is
trapped by some in his cabinet who do
not want him to make a deal with Hamas
those the extreme rightwing ministers
and he himself has set set on a course
where he can only succeed by delivering
what he has already promised even if
it's impossible so it's very hard to say
what the immediate impact on the
politics will be and you know even if he
was to be swayed by what these protests
when activists say that they want a
Hamas hostage deal have they spot out
exactly what they're prepared to concede
for
that hostage families and friends in
Israel that I've spoken to and many
people have said they just want the
hostage back the terms of the deal are
of less consequence at present than
physically returning those hostages that
are still alive and sadly the remains of
those who are not and the desperation
was evident in the faces uh and the
comments of the families over the
weekend the assumption is it will be a
deal for the return of Palestinian
prisoners being held by uh by Israelis
both on the West Bank and elsewhere um
but the actual terms of the deal seem to
matter less to people protesting than
just the desperation to get the hostages
back and they feel strongly that the
priority that should be allocated to
getting the hostages back has not been
the priority of prime minister Netanyahu
and the government hence the vence of
the demonstrations and the anger of
Defense Minister y Gallant of the way in
which the Coalition is handling the
crisis at present and O it's obvious as
to why s family and friends of the
hostages will absolutely prioritize that
but the government also has to to
balance the future security of Israel as
it sees
it that is right but everything since
October the 6 has changed it would
appear that the security of the state of
Israel which prime minister Netanyahu
and his supporters had predicated on
dividing the Palestinian leadership
Community supporting habas covertly in
Gaza preventing the establishment of a
Palestinian state has fallen apart uh
and the anger in Israel is directed at
the failure of that overall political
security policy as well as the atrocity
that took place on October the 7th for
which Hamas Bears complete
responsibility so the wider security of
Israel is indeed uh in in question now
and that calls for a different political
solution which will require Israel to
think of U an overall settlement which
will involve the West Bank East
Jerusalem as well as Gaza and it will
require the abandonment of those who
believe that the extinction the state of
Israel is still possible so a lot of
political changes necessary in order to
secure the peace and security of Israel
to which it is entitled as well as the
self-determination of the Palestinian
people and justice for them it is not
impossible and negotiations have always
faltered when they've got very difficult
but if there was ever a time to press
the case it's now aliser Bert thank you
very much indeed for being with us